text:How many trees are on Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:More than a thousand but less than 10 million. Countless. A gazillion	episode_done:True
text:How many trees were there before the fires in 2020?	labels:More than a thousand but less than 10 million. Countless. A gazillion	episode_done:True
text:What is the most common tree species at SPR?	labels:Coast live oak	episode_done:True
text:How old is the oldest tree at SPR? 	labels:1200 year stem; 5,000 year old roots	episode_done:True
text:What biome/ecosystem/ecotype covers the greatest area at SPR?	labels:Coastal	episode_done:True
text:When did Valencia Creek become a part of SPR?	labels:Al Swanton purchased Valencia creek in 1993	episode_done:True
text:How did Cal Poly get Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:Swanton Pacific Ranch was donated to Cal Poly by Cal Poly alumnus Al Smith.	episode_done:True
text:How big is Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:Swanton Pacific Ranch is 3200 acres.	episode_done:True
text:Is Swanton Pacific Ranch open to the public?	labels:No, except during specific times, such as: apple picking in the Fall, Al Smith Days, Cal Poly Days, and Swanton Pacific Railroad Days.	episode_done:True
text:Can I camp or hike in Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:The property is a private research and educational ranch and is not open to the public.	episode_done:True
text:May I camp or hike in Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:The property is a private research and educational ranch and is not open to the public.	episode_done:True
text:When is Swanton Pacific Ranch open to the public?	labels:Swanton Pacific Ranch is open to the public during special events held by Cal Poly or Swanton Pacific Railroad, and when apples are for sale.	episode_done:True
text:What was the original name of Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:The original Spanish-Mexican name was Rancho Agua Puerca y Las Trancas.	episode_done:True
text:What is a fun fact about the Rancho?	labels:Due to an English translation error during a legal proceeding regarding ownership the land grant's boundaries were described in a way that the northeasterly boundary would have included Modesto, California.	episode_done:True
text:How do I learn more about Swanton Pacific Ranch?	labels:To learn more about the ranch, search for Swanton Pacific Ranch California in your internet browser.	episode_done:True
text:What is the Green House used for?	labels:The Green House, or Casa Verde, contains offices and computer for Ranch staff, and a kitchen and dining room facility for Cal Poly students interns and students. It is one of the few buildings that survived the 2020 CZU Lightning Fire.	episode_done:True
text:What is Casa Verde used for?	labels:Casa Verde, or the Green House, contains offices and computer for Ranch staff and a kitchen and dining room facility for Cal Poly students interns and students. It is one of the few buildings that survived the 2020 CZU Lightning Fire.	episode_done:True
text:What can you tell me about the Green House?	labels:The Green House was built as a house for dairy operations on the Ranch. It is one of the few buildings that survived the 2020 CZU Lightning Fire.	episode_done:True
text:What can you tell me about the Green House?	labels:The Green House was originally the home of Swiss dairyman, Ambrogio Gianone, who leased it from James Archibald.It is one of the few buildings that survived the 2020 CZU Lightning Fire.	episode_done:True
text:What can you tell me about the Green House?	labels:Gianone later bought more land, know as Gianone Hill, where there are currently two families with fourth generation children. It is one of the few buildings that survived the 2020 CZU Lightning Fire.	episode_done:True
text:How old is the Cheese House?	labels:The Cheese House was built in 1867.	episode_done:True
text:What was the Cheese House used for?	labels:The Cheese house is used for storing and aging cheese for commercial purposes.	episode_done:True
text:What can you tell me about the Cheese House?	labels:Historical lore has it that the Cheese House was where Monterey Jack Cheese was first developed.	episode_done:True
text:What is that stone building falling down?	labels:The stone building that is falling down is the Cheese House.	episode_done:True
text:Why has the stone building not been fixed?	labels:TBD	episode_done:True
text:Where did Swanton get its name?	labels:The locality and town of Swanton were referred to by a number of names but the name Swanton was solidified in the late 1800s, after Fred Swanton. He was a businessman and mayor of Santa Cruz. He damed a local creek to created a hyroelectric plant to provide Santa Cruz with electriciy. 	episode_done:True
text:What does Una Legua Cuadrada mean in Spanish?	labels:Una Legua Cuadrada means one square league, roughly 4300 acres.	episode_done:True
text:What was the original size of the land grant now know as Swanton?	labels:The original size of the land grant was the traditional Spanish unit of area equal to one square (legua) league, roughly 4,340.28 acres.	episode_done:True
text:What is the official name of Scott Creek? Is it Scott Creek, Scotts or Scott's Creek,	labels:Until recently have scholars started to understand that the group they have referred to as the Ohlone have approximately up to 50 nation groups and language groups.	episode_done:True
text:What group of Indigenous Peoples lived in the Swanton area before Spanish colonization?	labels:Tribal distinctions are now recognized between the Amah Mutsun Tribal Band and the Ohlone/Costanoan Esselen Nation. When referring to the land base of Swanton it is more specifically the ancestral land of the Amah Mutsun.	episode_done:True
text:What group of Indigenous Peoples lived in the Swanton area before Spanish colonization?	labels:The descendants of the Indigenous Peoples that inhabited the area are now referred to as what Swanton identifies as the Amah Mutsun	episode_done:True
text:Why are the Indigenous Peoples of Swanton usually referred to as the Ohlone?	labels:Ethnologists and anthropologists have consistently characterized indigenous Californian cultures simplistically, ignoring complexities and variation. However, anthropologists have now begun a reassessment of groups such as the Ohlone, who inhabited what is now Santa Cruz, and believe their linguistic complexity and cultural continuity make them unique among the indigenous peoples of the North American continent.	episode_done:True
text:Why are the Indigenous Peoples of Swanton usually referred to as the Ohlone?	labels:The Native Americans that lived from Monterey to San Francisco were first referred to as Costanoan (which is missionization Spanish for "coastal peoples") and later as the Ohlone (possibly in reference to the Olijan Rancho near San Francisco).	episode_done:True
text:Why are the Indigenous Peoples of Swanton usually referred to as the Ohlone?	labels:Until recently have scholars started to understand that the group they have referred to as the Ohonline have approximately up to 50 nation groups and language groups.	episode_done:True
text:How many plants have been identified in the Swanton/Scott Creek Watershed?	labels:Approximately 15% or more of all of California's native and non-native plants live within the geomorphological boundaries of the watershed.	episode_done:True
text:What happened to the Indigenous People of Swanton and what is now know as Santa Cruz?	labels:Between 1770 and 1835, missionization gradually depleted the  population as well as the hunting and gathering on the landscape that would become Swanton Valley and Santa Cruz.  The disruption of their culture's stable and successful ecological adaptations significantly contributed to its devastation. The collapse of the population was also attributed to the introduction of disease, baptism and forced conversion, and declining birth rates.  	episode_done:True
text:When did Spanish colonization of California begin?	labels:Imperial Spain's colonization of California began in 1697.	episode_done:True
text:When did Mexico take control of California?	labels:Mexico officially assumed control of the area at that time. The last governor sent to California from Mexico City was Manuel Micheltorena, who came in 1842 and served until 1845. In 1848, California was acquired by the United States under the terms of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo.	episode_done:True
text:When was the Santa Cruz mission built?	labels:The Santa Cruz Mission began on September 25, 1792 with donations from local missions during Spanish rule.  The first stone was laid on February 23, 1793 and dedicated in March 1794. Subsequently, the Mexican government secularized the Mission in 1834.  In 1857, the Mission was completely destroyed by an earthquake. 	episode_done:True
text:What was the original name of the land grant that Swanton was part of?	labels:The original name of the land grant was Agua Puerca y las Trancas, translated as hog water and the bars, and was originally known as Rancho el Jarro. HIstorians have said that Agua Puerca likely refers to the stagnant water in the stream which comes out at Davenport Landing, the original southerly boundary of the rancho; and Las Trancas refers to placing poles for a gate or barrier in a narrow canyon just south of Waddell Creek.	episode_done:True
text:Who was given the title to the original land grant?	labels:On November 2, 1843, the Rancho Agua Puerca y las Trancas land grant was made to brothers-in-law Ramón Rodríguez and Francisco Alviso by Mexican Governor Manuel Micheltorena.	episode_done:True
text:When did James Archibald purchase the land?	labels:After both the Mexican-American War of 1846-48 and California's establishment as a state in 1850, land grant ownership required validation. That same year, 1867, Ramón Rodríguez and Francisco Alviso had their ownership validated and sold it to James Archibald.	episode_done:True
text:Where was James Archibald from?	labels:James Archibald was born in Scotland and immigrated to the United States.	episode_done:True
text:What did James Archibald do with the land?	labels:James Archibald farmed the land and arranged to have a Swiss dairyman, Ambrogio Gianone, run the dairy.	episode_done:True
text:Who built the cheese house?	labels:Swiss dairyman Ambrogio Gianone built the cheese house, a rock house cheese factory.	episode_done:True
text:Did Ambrogio Gianone ever leave and buy property of his own?	labels:At some point Ambrogio Gianone bought the north third of the Rancho, where Swanton Road crosses back over the ridge. It is known locally as Gianone Hill, and there are two families with fourth generation children living there today.	episode_done:True
text:Are there other names that Swanton has been called after becoming a state?	labels:One name Swanton was previously called was Laurel Grove. There was a need for a post office. The locals liked the name Laurel Grove, the name of the inn and the livery stable, and petitioned the Postal Service, but Fred Swanton knew a U.S. Senator thus the post office was designated as Swanton in 1897.	episode_done:True
text:Are there other names that Swanton has been called after becoming a state?	labels:One name Swanton was previoulsy called was Ingalls Station. 	episode_done:True
text:When did the Swanton post office open?	labels:In April, 1897, Pasquale Sonognini, a driver of the Santa Cruz-Pescadero stage, applied for a post office to be known as Trancas near the junction of Scott and Big creeks and on the Santa Cruz and Pescadero Stage Road (now Swanton Road). When the Post Office Department approved the office for opening May 28, 1897, it bestowed upon it the name of Swanton. The post office was closed on December 31, 1930. 	episode_done:True
text:When did the Swanton post office close?	labels:In April, 1897, Pasquale Sonognini, a driver of the Santa Cruz-Pescadero stage, applied for a post office to be known as Trancas near the junction of Scott and Big creeks and on the Santa Cruz and Pescadero Stage Road (now Swanton Road). When the Post Office Department approved the office for opening May 28, 1897, it bestowed upon it the name of Swanton. The post office was closed on December 31, 1930. 	episode_done:True
text:What was the suggested name for the first local post office?	labels:Some sources states that the post office was proposed to be named Trancas while some say Laurel Grove. There has been speculation that Fred Swanton knew a senator and his wishes overruled an Italian immigrant's name application considering the time period and Swanton's place in society.	episode_done:True